.Dd March 12, 2021
.Dt STACHIO 1
.Os
.\"
.Sh NAME
.\" ====
.Nm stachio
.Nd Render mustachio'd (Handlebars) templates into a static site.
.\"
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.\" ========
.Nm
.Op Fl hv
.Op Ar SOURCE_DIRECTORY=\.
.Op Ar OUTPUT_DIRECTORY=dist
.\"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.\" ===========
The
.Nm
program is a static site generator that renders Handlebars templates into HTML.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -offset 2n
.It Fl h, Fl -help
Displays the help message.
.It Fl v, Fl -version
Displays the version number.
.El
.Pp
The positional arguments are as follows:
.Bl -tag -offset 2n
.It Op Ar SOURCE_DIRECTORY
The source directory to search for templates. This defaults to the current working directory.
.It Op Ar OUTPUT_DIRECTORY
The directory to which the generated HTML files are output. This defaults to
.Dq dist .
.El
.\"
.Ss Layout Template
.\" ---------------
An optional layout template may be utilized by creating a file explicitly named
.Dq Pa _layout.hbs
in the
.Op Ar SOURCE_DIRECTORY .
This file must contain a content outlet defined like so:
.Bd -literal -offset 2n
{{{content}}}
.Ed
.Pp
The above content outlet specifies where the inheriting page content is output.
.Pp
Layout templates are
.Sy not
directly transformed into HTML files in the
.Op Ar OUTPUT_DIRECTORY .
.\"
.Ss Partials
.\" --------
Any
.Dq private filenames
.Pq filenames prefixed with an underscore e.g., Dq Pa _partial.hbs
in the
.Op Ar SOURCE_DIRECTORY
which are
.Sy not
explicitly named
.Dq Pa _layout.hbs
are automatically registered as partials.
.Pp
Partials are
.Sy not
directly transformed into HTML files in the
.Op Ar OUTPUT_DIRECTORY .
.\"
.Ss Data Files
.\" ----------
A data file is any file which is named
.Dq Pa _data.json
which is in the
.Op Ar SOURCE_DIRECTORY
or one of it's children. They consist only of a JSON object which is populated with context variables. Of note, any context variables defined within one of these files is scoped to templates and partials in the same directory as the data file.
.Pp
Data files are
.Sy not
directly transformed into HTML files in the
.Op Ar OUTPUT_DIRECTORY .
.\"
.Ss Page Templates
.\" --------------
A page template is any file
.Sy without
an underscore
.Pq Dq _
prefix e.g.,
.Dq Pa page.hbs .
These files inherit from the
.Sx Layout Template
if one is present. Also, any
.Sx Partials
which have been registered can be invoked via:
.Bd -literal -offset 2n
{{> partialName }}
.Ed
.Pp
Where
.Dq partialName
is replaced with the name of the partial being utilized.
.Pp
Page templates are directly transformed into HTML files in the
.Op Ar OUTPUT_DIRECTORY .
.\"
.Sh FILES
.\" =====
The configuration file is as follows:
.Bl -tag -offset 2n
.It Pa .config/stachio/config.js
This config file path is relative to the project root and merely exports an object with a
.Dq context
key that contains any template context variables. Use of a configuration file is optional.
.Sy This file must be manually created.
.El
.\"
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.\" ===========
.Ex -std
.\"
.Sh SEE ALSO
.\" ========
.Xr handlebars 1
.\"
.Sh AUTHORS
.\" =======
.An James Benner Aq Mt james.benner@gmail.com
.Pq Lk https://www.jamesbenner.com/
